.\"/*
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2022 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Christophe Fontaine
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\"
.TH TUNED_PROFILES_CPU_PARTITIONING "7" "22 Nov 2022" "TuneD"
.SH NAME
tuned\-profiles\-cpu\-partitioning\-powersave - Partition CPUs into isolated and housekeeping with C-States enabled

.SH DESCRIPTION
The cpu\-partitioning\-powersave profile is similar to cpu\-partitioning profile,
but gives more flexibility on the C-States configuration.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The cpu-partitioning-powersave profile is configured by editing the
.I /etc/tuned/cpu-partitioning-powersave-variables.conf
file. There are three configuration options:

.TP
.B isolated_cores=<CPU\-LIST>
List of CPUs to isolate. This option is mandatory. Any CPUs not in this list
is automatically considered a housekeeping CPU.
.TP
.B no_balance_cores=<CPU\-LIST>
List of CPUs not be considered by the kernel when doing system wide
process load\-balancing. Usually, this list should be the same as
isolated_cores=. This option is optional.
.TP
.B max_power_state=<MAX_CSTATE>
Maximum c-state the cores are allowed to enter. Can be expressed as it's name (C1E)
or minimum wake-up latency, in micro-seconds.
This parameter is provided as-is to `force_latency`.
Default is set to "cstate.name:C1|10" to behave as cpu\-partitioning profile.


.SH IMPORTANT NOTES

.IP *
Same recommendations as tuned\-profiles\-cpu\-partitioning (7) apply.

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.I /etc/tuned/cpu\-partitioning\-variables.conf
.I /etc/tuned/tuned\-main.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned\-adm (8)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-cpu\-partitioning (7)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Christophe Fontaine <cfontain@redhat.com>
