.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Jaroslav Škarvada, Jiří Mencák
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\"
.TH TUNED_PROFILES_OPENSHIFT "7" "02 Aug 2021" "Fedora Power Management SIG" "TuneD"
.SH NAME
tuned\-profiles\-openshift - description of profiles provided for the OpenShift platform

.SH DESCRIPTION
These profiles are provided for the OpenShift platform.

.SH PROFILES
The following profiles are provided:

.TP
.BI "openshift"
Parent profile containing tuning shared by OpenShift control plane and worker nodes.

.TP
.BI "openshift\-control\-plane"
Profile optimized for OpenShift control plane.

.TP
.BI "openshift\-node"
Profile optimized for general workloads on OpenShift worker nodes.

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.I /etc/tuned/*
.I /usr/lib/tuned/*

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned\-adm (8)
.BR tuned\-profiles (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-atomic (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap\-hana (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-mssql (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-oracle (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-realtime (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-nfv\-host (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-nfv\-guest (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-cpu\-partitioning (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-compat (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-postgresql (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-spectrumscale\-ece (7)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Jaroslav Škarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>
Jiří Mencák <jmencak@redhat.com>
