.\"/*.
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Tomáš Korbař
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\".
.TH "tuned-gui" "8" "22 Mar 2019" "Fedora Power Management SIG" "TuneD"
.SH NAME
tuned\-gui - graphical interface for configuration of TuneD
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtuned\-gui\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtuned-gui\fP is graphical interface for configuration of TuneD daemon. GUI
allows user to easily create, remove or update TuneD profiles and load those
profiles into TuneD. It is also possible to explore all available plugins and
information about them, like their description or help for their configuration
parameters.
.SH "TABS"
.TP
.B SUMMARY
Display current active profile and configuration of plugins used by it.
.TP
.B PROFILES
Display available profiles and their origin (System | User). Profiles can be
managed by 'create new profile', 'Edit' and 'Remove' buttons.
.TP
.B PLUGINS
Display available plugins and all accessible information about them.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
tuned(8)
tuned\-adm(8)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Jaroslav Škarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>
Marek Stana
Tomáš Korbař <tkorbar@redhat.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to https://bugzilla.redhat.com/.
