.\"/*.
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2009-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Jan Kaluža, Jan Včelák, Jaroslav Škarvada,
.\" *          Phil Knirsch
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\".
.TH "tuned" "8" "28 Mar 2012" "Fedora Power Management SIG" "Adaptive system tuning daemon"
.SH NAME
tuned - dynamic adaptive system tuning daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtuned\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtuned\fR is a dynamic adaptive system tuning daemon
that tunes system settings dynamically depending on
usage. 

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-d "\fR, \fP" \-\-daemon
This options starts \fBtuned\fP as a daemon as opposed to
in the foreground without forking at startup.
.TP 12
.BI \-D "\fR, \fP" \-\-debug
Sets the highest logging level. This could be very useful when having trouble with \fBtuned\fP.
.TP 12
.BI \-h "\fR, \fP" \-\-help
Show this help.
.TP 12
.BI \-l " \fR[" \fILOG "\fR], " \fB\-\-log \fR[ \fB=\fILOG\fR]\fP
Log to the file \fILOG\fP. If no \fILOG\fP file is specified \fB/var/log/tuned/tuned.log\fP is used.
.TP 12
.BI \--no-dbus
Do not attach to DBus.
.TP 12
.BI \-P " \fR[" \fIPID "\fR], " \fB\-\-pid \fR[ \fB=\fIPID\fR]\fP
Write process ID to the \fBPID\fP file. If no \fIPID\fP file is specified \fB/run/tuned/tuned.pid\fP is used.
.TP 12
.BI  \-p "\fR \fP" \fIPROFILE\fP "\fR, \fP" \-\-profile "\fR \fP" \fIPROFILE\fP
Tunning profile to be activated. It will override other settings (e.g. from \fBtuned-adm\fP).
This is intended for debugging purposes.
.TP 12
.BI  \-v "\fR, \fP" \-\-version
Show version information.
.SH "FILES"
.nf
/etc/tuned
/usr/share/doc/tuned/README
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
tuned.conf(5)
tuned\-adm(8)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Jan Kaluža <jkaluza@redhat.com>
Jan Včelák <jvcelak@redhat.com>
Jaroslav Škarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>
Phil Knirsch <pknirsch@redhat.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to https://bugzilla.redhat.com/.
