.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2009-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Jaroslav Škarvada, Jan Kaluža, Jan Včelák,
.\" *          Marcela Mašláňová, Phil Knirsch
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_PROFILES "7" "30 Mar 2017" "Fedora Power Management SIG" "tuned"
.SH NAME
tuned\-profiles - description of basic tuned profiles

.SH DESCRIPTION
These are the base profiles which are mostly shipped in the base tuned
package. They are targeted to various goals. Mostly they provide
performance optimizations but there are also profiles targeted to
low power consumption, low latency and others. You can mostly deduce the
purpose of the profile by its name or you can see full description below.

The profiles are stored in subdirectories below \fI/usr/lib/tuned\fP. If you
need to customize the profiles, you can copy them to \fI/etc/tuned\fP and modify
them as you need. When loading profiles with the same name, the /etc/tuned takes
precedence. In such case you will not lose your customized profiles  between
tuned updates.

The power saving profiles contain settings that are typically not enabled by
default as they will noticeably impact the latency/performance of your system
as opposed to the power saving mechanisms that are enabled by default. On the
other hand the performance profiles disable the additional power saving
mechanisms of tuned as they would negatively impact throughput or latency.

.SH PROFILES
At the moment we're providing the following pre\-defined profiles:

.TP
.BI "balanced"
It is the default profile. It provides balanced power saving and performance.
At the moment it enables CPU and disk plugins of tuned and it makes sure the
conservative governor is active (if supported by the current cpufreq driver).
It enables ALPM power saving for SATA host adapters and sets the link power
management policy to medium_power. It also sets the CPU energy performance
bias to normal. It also enables AC97 audio power saving or (it depends on
your system) HDA\-Intel power savings with 10 seconds timeout. In case your
system contains supported Radeon graphics card (with enabled KMS) it
configures it to automatic power saving.

.TP
.BI "powersave"
Maximal power saving, at the moment it enables USB autosuspend (in case
environment variable USB_AUTOSUSPEND is set to 1), enables ALPM power saving
for SATA host adapters and sets the link power management policy to min_power.
It also enables WiFi power saving and makes sure the ondemand governor is active
(if supported by the current cpufreq driver). It sets the CPU energy performance
bias to powersave. It also enables AC97 audio power saving or (it depends on
your system) HDA\-Intel power savings (with 10 seconds timeout). In case your
system contains supported Radeon graphics card (with enabled KMS) it
configures it to automatic power saving. On Asus Eee PCs dynamic Super
Hybrid Engine is enabled.

.TP
.BI "throughput\-performance"
Profile for typical throughput performance tuning. Disables power saving
mechanisms and enables sysctl settings that improve the throughput performance
of your disk and network IO. CPU governor is set to performance and CPU energy
performance bias is set to performance. Disk readahead values are increased.

.TP
.BI "latency\-performance"
Profile for low latency performance tuning. Disables power saving mechanisms.
CPU governor is set to performance and locked to the low C states (by PM QoS).
CPU energy performance bias to performance.

.TP
.BI "network\-throughput"
Profile for throughput network tuning. It is based on the throughput\-performance
profile. It additionally increases kernel network buffers.

.TP
.BI "network\-latency"
Profile for low latency network tuning. It is based on the latency\-performance
profile. It additionally disables transparent hugepages, NUMA balancing and
tunes several other network related sysctl parameters.

.TP
.BI "desktop"
Profile optimized for desktops based on balanced profile. It additionally
enables scheduler autogroups for better response of interactive applications.

.TP
.BI "virtual\-guest"
Profile optimized for virtual guests based on throughput\-performance profile.
It additionally decreases virtual memory swappiness and increases dirty_ratio
settings.

.TP
.BI "virtual\-host"
Profile optimized for virtual hosts based on throughput\-performance profile.
It additionally enables more aggressive writeback of dirty pages.

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.I /etc/tuned/*
.I /usr/lib/tuned/*

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned\-adm (8)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-atomic (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap-hana (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-oracle (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-realtime (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-nfv\-host (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-nfv\-guest (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-cpu\-partitioning (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-compat (7)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Jaroslav Škarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>
Jan Kaluža <jkaluza@redhat.com>
Jan Včelák <jvcelak@redhat.com>
Marcela Mašláňová <mmaslano@redhat.com>
Phil Knirsch <pknirsch@redhat.com>
