.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2009-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Jaroslav Škarvada, Jan Kaluža, Jan Včelák,
.\" *          Marcela Mašláňová, Phil Knirsch
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_PROFILES_COMPAT "7" "30 Mar 2017" "Fedora Power Management SIG" "tuned"
.SH NAME
tuned\-profiles\-compat - description of profiles provided for backward compatibility

.SH DESCRIPTION
These profiles are provided for backward compatibility with the tuned-1x.
They are no longer maintained and may be dropped anytime in the future.
It's not recommended to use them for purposes other than backward compatibility.
Some of them are only aliases to base tuned profiles. Please do not use the compat
profiles on new installations and rather use profiles from base tuned package or
other tuned subpackages.

.SH PROFILES
The following profiles are considered compatibility profiles:

.TP
.BI "default"
It is the lowest of the available profiles in regard to power saving and only
enables CPU and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI "desktop\-powersave"
A power saving profile directed at desktop systems. Enables ALPM power saving
for SATA host adapters as well as the CPU, ethernet and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI server\-powersave
A power saving profile directed at server systems. Enables ALPM power saving
for SATA host adapters, and activates the CPU and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI laptop\-ac\-powersave
Medium power saving profile directed at laptops running on AC. Enables ALPM
power saving for SATA host adapters,  WiFi power saving as well as CPU,
ethernet and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI laptop\-battery\-powersave
Strong power saving profile directed at laptops running on battery. Currently
an alias to powersave profile.

.TP
.BI "spindown\-disk"
Strong power saving profile directed at machines with classic HDDs. It enables
aggressive disk spin-down. Disk writeback values are increased and disk
swappiness is lowered. Log syncing is disabled. All partitions are remounted
with 'noatime' option.

.TP
.BI "enterprise\-storage"
Server profile for high disk throughput performance tuning. Disables power
saving mechanisms and enables hugepages. Disk readahead values are increased.
CPU governor is set to performance.

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.I /etc/tuned/*
.I /usr/lib/tuned/*

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned\-adm (8)
.BR tuned\-profiles (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-atomic (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap\-hana (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-mssql (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-oracle (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-realtime (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-nfv\-host (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-nfv\-guest (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-cpu\-partitioning (7)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Jaroslav Škarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>
Jan Kaluža <jkaluza@redhat.com>
Jan Včelák <jvcelak@redhat.com>
Marcela Mašláňová <mmaslano@redhat.com>
Phil Knirsch <pknirsch@redhat.com>
