.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2009-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Jaroslav Škarvada
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_PROFILES_SAP_HANA "7" "30 Mar 2017" "Fedora Power Management SIG" "TuneD"
.SH NAME
tuned\-profiles\-sap\-hana - description of profiles provided for the SAP HANA

.SH DESCRIPTION
These profiles provides performance optimizations for the SAP HANA applications.

.SH PROFILES
The following profiles are provided:

.TP
.BI "sap\-hana"
A performance optimized profile for the SAP HANA applications. It allows
sleep states down to C3 and enables sysctl settings that improve throughput
performance of disk and network IO. CPU governor is set to performance and CPU
energy performance bias is set to performance. It also disables transparent
hugepages, locks CPU to the low C states (by PM QoS) and tunes sysctl regarding
semaphores.

.TP
.BI "sap\-hana\-kvm\-guest"
A performance optimized profile for the SAP HANA application when running as
virtual guest on KVM. It loads the cpuidle-haltpoll driver to ensure lower
latencies (at the cost of a higher power consumption).
The clocksource is set to TSC, skew_tick is enabled.

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.I /etc/tuned/*
.I /usr/lib/tuned/*

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned\-adm (8)
.BR tuned\-profiles (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-atomic (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-mssql (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-oracle (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-realtime (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-nfv\-host (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-nfv\-guest (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-cpu\-partitioning (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-compat (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-postgresql (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-openshift (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-spectrumscale\-ece (7)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Jaroslav Škarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>
