.TH "tuned.cfg" "5" "13 Mar 2012" "Jan Kaluza" "tuned.cfg file format description"
.SH NAME
tuned.cfg \- Tuned profile definition
.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page documents format of Tuned 2.0 profile definition files. Profile is
stored in /etc/tuned/<profile_name>/tuned.cfg or in 
/usr/lib/tuned/<profile_name>/tuned.cfg file where the /etc/tuned/ directory has 
higher priority.

The \fBtuned.cfg\fR configures the profile and it is in ini-file format.

.SH MAIN SECTION
The main section is called "[main]" and can contain following options:

.TP
include=
Includes config file defined as value. Config file can be defined as full path
or by the profile name to which it belongs.
If this parameter is present, the histogram will be shown at the end of the measurement.

.SH PLUGINS
Every other section defines one plugin. The name of the section is used as name
for the plugin and is used in logs to identify the plugin. There can be only
one plugin of particular type tuning particular device. Conflicts are by
default fixed by merging the options of both plugins together. This can be
changed by "replace" option.

Every plugin section can contain following sections:

.TP
type=
Plugin type. Currently there are following plugins: disk, script, net, cpu.
.TP
devices=
Comma separated list of devices which should be tuned by this plugin instance.
If you omit this option, all found devices will be tuned.
.TP
replace=1
If there is conflict between two plugins (meaning two plugins of the same
type are trying to configure the same devices), then the plugin defined as
last replaces all options defined by the previosly defined plugin.
.LP
Plugins can also have plugin related options.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
[main]
# Includes plugins defined in "included" profile.
include=included

# Define my_sysctl plugin
[my_sysctl]
type=sysctl
# This plugin will replace any sysctl plugin defined in "included" profile
replace=1
# 256 KB default performs well experimentally.
net.core.rmem_default = 262144
net.core.wmem_default = 262144

# Define my_script plugin
# Since there is no "replace=1" option, this plugin will not replace
# any script plugin defined in "included" profile and both scripts
# (profile.sh from this profile and script from "included" profile)
# will be run.
[my_script]
type=script
script=profile.sh
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
tuned(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Jan Kaluza <jkaluza@redhat.com>.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <jkaluza@redhat.com>.
