.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Marcela Mašláňová
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_ADM "1" "9 Jul 2009" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
tuned-adm \- commandline tool for setting the power-save options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tuned-adm 
.B 
.BR help ", " laptop ", " server ", " default ", " off "
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command line utility allows user to set profile for server or laptop.
.SH "OPTIONS"

.SS
.TP
.B help
Print out the list of commands.

.TP
.B laptop

.TP
.B server
These settings are calling ktune which set up different values for better resource consumption.
It also switch on tuned daemon and add ktune and tuned into chkconfig. Usbsuspend is set.

.TP
.B off
Switch off all ktune and tuned settings and remove them from services. The configuration file are 
set to previous settings.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Marcela Mašláňová <mmaslano@redhat.com>
