.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Jaroslav Škarvada
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_PROFILES_ATOMIC "7" "30 Mar 2017" "Fedora Power Management SIG" "tuned"
.SH NAME
tuned\-profiles\-atomic - description of profiles provided for the Project Atomic

.SH DESCRIPTION
These profiles are provided for the Project Atomic. They provides performance
optimizations for the Atomic hosts (bare metal) and virtual guests.

.SH PROFILES
The following profiles are provided:

.TP
.BI "atomic\-host"
Profile optimized for Atomic hosts (bare metal). It is based on throughput\-performance
profile. It additionally increases SELinux AVC cache, PID limit and tunes
netfilter connections tracking.

.TP
.BI "atomic\-guest"
Profile optimized for virtual Atomic guests. It is based on virtual\-guest
profile. It additionally increases SELinux AVC cache, PID limit and tunes
netfilter connections tracking.

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.I /etc/tuned/*
.I /usr/lib/tuned/*

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned\-adm (8)
.BR tuned\-profiles (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap\-hana (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-mssql (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-oracle (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-realtime (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-nfv\-host (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-nfv\-guest (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-cpu\-partitioning (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-compat (7)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Jaroslav Škarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>
