.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Jan Kaluža, Jan Včelák, Jaroslav Škarvada,
.\" *          Marcela Mašláňová, Phil Knirsch
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_ADM "8" "28 Mar 2012" "Fedora Power Management SIG" "tuned"
.SH NAME
tuned-adm \- commandline tool for switching between different tuning profiles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tuned-adm 
.B 
.BR [ " list ", " active ", " profile <profile> ", " off " ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command line utility allows user to switch between user definable tuning profiles. Several predefined profiles are already included. You can even create your own profile, either based on one of the existing ones by copying it or make a completely new one. The distribution provided profiles are stored in subdirectories below /usr/lib/tuned and the user defined profiles in subdirectories below /etc/tuned. If there are same profiles on both places, User defined profiles have precedence. 	

The power saving profiles contain settings that are typically not enabled by default as they will noticeably impact the latency/performance of your system as opposed to the power saving mechanisms that are enabled by default. On the other hand the performance profiles disable the additional power saving mechanisms of tuned as they would negatively impact throughput or latency.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.SS
.TP
.B list
List all available profiles.

.TP
.B active
Show current active profile.

.TP
.B profile <profile>
Switches to the given profilename. If none is given or no valid one is given the command gracefully exits without performing any operation.

.TP
.B recommend
Recommend profile suitable for your system. Currently only static detection is implemented - it decides according to data in /etc/system-release-cpe and virt-what output. The rules for autodetection are defined in recommend.conf in profile directory. They can be overriden by user by putting the recommend.conf into /etc/tuned. The default rules recommends profiles targeted to the best performance or balanced profile if unsure.

.TP
.B off
Switch off tuned.

.SH PREDEFINED PROFILES
At the moment we're providing the following pre defined profiles:

.TP
.BI "balanced"
It is the default profile. It provides balanced power saving and performance. At the moment it enables CPU and disk plugins of tuned and it makes sure the ondemand governor is active. It also enables AC97 audio power saving or (it depends on your system) HDA-Intel power savings (with 10 seconds timeout). In case your system contains supported Radeon graphics card (with enabled KMS) it configures it to automatic power saving.


.TP
.BI "powersave"
Maximal power saving, at the moment it enables USB autosuspend (in case environment variable USB_AUTOSUSPEND is set to 1), enables ALPM power saving for SATA host adapters, enables WiFi power saving, enables multi core power savings scheduler for low wakeup systems and makes sure the ondemand governor is active. It also enables AC97 audio power saving or (it depends on your system) HDA-Intel power savings (with 10 seconds timeout). In case your system contains supported Radeon graphics card (with enabled KMS) it configures it to automatic power saving. On Asus Eee PCs dynamic Super Hybrid Engine is enabled.

.TP
.BI throughput-performance
Profile for typical throughput performance tuning. Disables power saving mechanisms and enables sysctl settings that improve the throughput performance of your disk and network IO and switches to the deadline scheduler. CPU governor is set to performance.

.TP
.BI latency-performance
Profile for low latency performance tuning. Disables power saving mechanisms and enables deadline IO scheduler. CPU governor is set to performance and locked to the low C states (by PM QoS).

.TP
.BI "virtual-guest"
Profile optimized for virtual guests based on throughput-performance profile. It additionally decreases virtual memory swapiness. It doesn't disable disk barriers. Disk readahead values are increased.

.TP
.BI "virtual-host"
Profile optimized for virtual hosts based on throughput-performance profile. It additionally decreases virtual memory swapiness and enables more aggresive writeback of dirty pages. Disk readahead values are increased.

.SH PREDEFINED COMPAT PROFILES
We are also providing so called "compat" profiles that are here mostly for backward compatibility with tuned 1.0. They are oriented to more specific scenarios.

.TP
.BI "default"
It is the lowest of the available profiles in regard to power saving and only enables CPU and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI "desktop-powersave"
A power saving profile directed at desktop systems. Enables ALPM power saving for SATA host adapters as well as the CPU, ethernet and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI server-powersave
A power saving profile directed at server systems. Enables ALPM power saving for SATA host adapters, and activates the CPU and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI laptop-ac-powersave
Medium power saving profile directed at laptops running on AC. Enables ALPM power saving for SATA host adapters,  WiFi power saving as well as CPU, ethernet and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI laptop-battery-powersave
Strong power saving profile directed at laptops running on battery. Currently an alias to powersave profile.

.TP
.BI "spindown-disk"
Strong power saving profile directed at machines with classic HDDs. It enables aggressive disk spin-down. Disk writeback values are increased and disk swappiness is lowered. Log syncing is disabled. All partitions are remounted with 'noatime' option. All tuned plugins are disabled.

.TP
.BI "enterprise-storage"
Server profile for high disk throughput performace tuning. Disables power saving mechanisms and enables deadline IO scheduler. Enables hugepages and disables disk barriers. Disk readahead values are increased. CPU governor is set to performance.

.SH "FILES"
.nf
/etc/tuned/*
/usr/lib/tuned/*

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned-conf (5)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Jan Kaluža <jkaluza@redhat.com>
Jan Včelák <jvcelak@redhat.com>
Jaroslav Škarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>
Marcela Mašláňová <mmaslano@redhat.com>
Phil Knirsch <pknirsch@redhat.com>
