.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Marcela Mašláňová, Phil Knirsch
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_ADM "1" "9 Jul 2009" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
tuned-adm \- commandline tool for switching between different tuning profiles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tuned-adm 
.B 
.BR [ " help ", " list ", " active ", " profile <profile> ", " off " ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command line utility allows user to switch between user definable tuning profiles. Several predefined profiles are already included for some of the more common cases. Although the profiles typically refer to a common use case you can of course switch to any profile on any system. So switching to the laptop-battery-powersave profile on a server will activate this profile on it. This way, depending on your requirements you can select any of the profiles that fits your needs. You can even create your own profile, either based on one of the existing ones by copying it or make a completely new one. The profiles are stored in subdirectories below /etc/tune-profiles.

The power saving profiles contain settings that are typically not enabled by default as they will noticeably impact the latency/performance of your system as opposed to the power saving mechanisms we have enabled by default. On the other hand the performance profiles disable the additional power saving mechanisms of tuned and ktune as they would negatively impact the performance tuning, be it throughput or latency.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.SS
.TP
.B help
Print out the list of commands. It's also the default if you start tuned-adm without any commands.

.TP
.B list
List all available profiles.

.TP
.B active
Show current active profile.

.TP
.B profile <profile>
Switches to the given profilename. If none is given or no valid one is given the command gracefully exits without performing any operation.

.TP
.B off
Switch off all ktune and tuned settings and remove them from services. The configuration file are 
set to previous settings.

.SH PREDEFINED PROFILES
At the moment we're providing the following pre defined profiles:

.TP
.BI "default"
This is the default powersaving profile. It is the lowest of the available profiles in regard to powersaving and only enables CPU and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI "desktop-powersave"
A powersaving profile directed at desktop systems. Enables ALPM powersaving for SATA host adapters as well as the CPU, ethernet and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI server-powersave
A powersaving profile directed at server systems. Enables ALPM powersaving for SATA host adapters, disables CD-ROM polling via hal and activates the CPU and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI laptop-ac-powersave
Medium powersaving profile directed at laptops running on AC. Enables ALPM powersaving for SATA host adapters,  WiFi power saving as well as CPU, ethernet and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI laptop-battery-powersave
Strong powersaving profile directed at laptops running on battery. It activates all power saving mechanisms from the previous profiles plus it enables multi core power savings scheduler for low wakeup systems and makes sure the ondemand governor is active and the AC97 audio power saving is enabled. This profile can be used for any kind of system, not only laptops on battery power in order to save the maximum amount of power. The tradeoff for this profile is a noticeable impact on performance, specifically latency of disk and network IO. 

.TP
.BI throughput-performance
Sever profile for typical throughput performance tuning. Disables tuned and ktune power saving mechanisms and enables sysctl settings that improve the throughput performance of your disk and network IO and switches to the deadline scheduler.

.TP
.BI latency-performance
Sever profile for typical latency performance tuning. Disables tuned and ktune power saving mechanisms and enables sysctl settings that improve the latency performance of your network IO.

.SH "FILES"
.nf
/etc/tune-profiles/*

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Marcela Mašláňová <mmaslano@redhat.com>
Phil Knirsch <pknirsch@redhat.com>
