.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (C) 2009-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" * Authors: Marcela Mašláňová, Phil Knirsch, Jaroslav Škarvada
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" *
.\" * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" * along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" * Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_PROFILES "7" "23 Sep 2014" "Fedora Power Management SIG" "tuned"
.SH NAME
tuned\-profiles - description of basic tuned profiles

.SH DESCRIPTION
These are the base profiles which are mostly shipped in the base tuned
package. They are targeted to various goals. Mostly they provide
performance optimizations but there are also profiles targeted to
low power consumption, low latency and others. You can mostly deduce the
purpose of the profile by its name or you can see full description bellow.

The power saving profiles contain settings that are typically not enabled by default as they will noticeably impact the latency/performance of your system as opposed to the power saving mechanisms we have enabled by default. On the other hand the performance profiles disable the additional power saving mechanisms of tuned and ktune as they would negatively impact the performance tuning, be it throughput or latency.

.SH PREDEFINED PROFILES
At the moment we're providing the following pre defined profiles:

.TP
.BI "default"
This is the default powersaving profile. It is the lowest of the available profiles in regard to powersaving and only enables CPU and disk plugins of tuned. This is not the same as 'tuned-adm off', where tuned and ktune services are disabled.

.TP
.BI "desktop\-powersave"
A powersaving profile directed at desktop systems. Enables ALPM powersaving for SATA host adapters as well as the CPU, ethernet and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI server\-powersave
A powersaving profile directed at server systems. Enables ALPM powersaving for SATA host adapters, and activates the CPU and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI laptop\-ac\-powersave
Medium powersaving profile directed at laptops running on AC. Enables ALPM powersaving for SATA host adapters,  WiFi power saving as well as CPU, ethernet and disk plugins of tuned.

.TP
.BI laptop\-battery\-powersave
Strong powersaving profile directed at laptops running on battery. It activates all power saving mechanisms from the previous profiles plus it enables multi core power savings scheduler for low wakeup systems and makes sure the ondemand governor is active and the AC97 audio power saving is enabled.  This profile can be used for any kind of system, not only laptops on battery power in order to save the maximum amount of power. The tradeoff for this profile is a noticeable impact on performance, specifically latency of disk and network IO. 

.TP
.BI "spindown\-disk"
Strong powersaving profile directed at machines with classic HDDs. It enables aggressive disk spin-down. Disk writeback values are increased and disk swappiness is lowered. Log syncing is disabled. All partitions are remounted with 'noatime' option. All tuned plugins are disabled.

.TP
.BI throughput\-performance
Server profile for typical throughput performance tuning. Disables tuned and ktune power saving mechanisms and enables sysctl settings that improve the throughput performance of your disk and network IO and switches to the deadline scheduler. CPU governor is set to performance.

.TP
.BI latency\-performance
Server profile for typical latency performance tuning. Disables tuned and ktune power saving mechanisms and enables deadline IO scheduler. CPU governor is set to performance.

.TP
.BI "enterprise\-storage"
Server profile for high disk throughput performace tuning. Disables tuned and ktune power saving mechanisms and enables deadline IO scheduler. Enables hugepages and disables disk barriers. Disk readahead values are increased. CPU governor is set to performance.

.TP
.BI "virtual\-guest"
Profile optimized for virtual guests based on enterprise-storage profile. It additionally decreases virtual memory swapiness.

.TP
.BI "virtual\-host"
Profile optimized for virtual hosts based on enterprise-storage profile. It additionally decreases virtual memory swapiness and enables more aggresive writeback of dirty pages.

.TP
.BI "oracle"
Profile optimized for Oracle databases based on throughput\-performance profile. It additionaly disables transparent huge pages and modifies some other performance related kernel parameters.

.SH "FILES"
.NF
/etc/tune-profiles/*

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned\-adm (1)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap (7)
.BR tuned\-profiles\-sap\-hana (7)
.SH AUTHOR
.NF
Marcela Mašláňová <mmaslano@redhat.com>
Phil Knirsch <pknirsch@redhat.com>
Jaroslav Škarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>
