.TH "tuned" "8" "25 Feb 2009" "Phil Knirsch" "Adaptive system tuning daemon"
.SH NAME
tuned \- dynamic adaptive system tuning daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtuned\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtuned\fR is a dynamic adaptive system tuning daemon
that tunes system settings dynamically depending on
usage. For each hardware subsystem a specific monitoring plugin collects data
periodically. This information is then used by tuning plugins to change system
settings to lower or higher power saving modes in order to adapt to the current
usage. Currently monitoring and tuning plugins for CPU, ethernet network and ATA
harddisk devices are implemented.

In order to make it easier to switch between settings for different setups or
locations we now have an additional tool to switch between profiles.
Several pre defined profiles have already been included, but new ones can easily
be added or existing ones modified. For more details look at tuned-adm(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-d "\fR, \fP" \--daemon
This options starts tuned as a daemon as opposed to
in the foreground without forking at startup.
.TP 12
.BI \-c "\fR, \fP" \--conffile=" conffile"
Specify the name and path of the configuration file, default is \fB/etc/tuned.conf\fR.
.TP 12
.BI \-D "\fR, \fP" \--debug
Sets the highest logging level. This could be very useful when having trouble with tuned.
.SH "FILES"
.nf
/etc/tuned.conf
/usr/share/doc/tuned-*/README
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
tuned.conf(5)
tuned-adm(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Phil Knirsch <pknirsch@redhat.com>.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <pknirsch@redhat.com>. 
